THE AGA KHAN UNIVERSITY (INTERNATIONAL) IN THE UNITED KINGDOM
HUMAN RESOURCE POLICIES 
ANNUAL LEAVE POLICY
Policy #: Pages: 1 of 2
Issue #: 01 Effective date:
Revision: Effective date:
DISCLAIMER: If there is a discrepancy between the electronic copy of this policy and / 
or any other copy of this policy, the written copy held by the Policy Owner will prevail.


The Annual leave entitlement is 23 working days in each calendar year, which accrues on a monthly 
basis. Staff members are also entitled to be paid bank and public holidays 8 days per year and 
AKU-ISMC holidays between Christmas and New Year period.


Employees can carry forward a maximum of 5 days’ annual leave to the following year. Employees 
must take the carry over leave during the first quarter of the calendar year. The holiday entitlement 
and holiday accrual for AKU-ISMC part time employees is pro rata to the full time equivalent. 
Part-time employees should refer to their Contract of Employment or contact the HR department 
to confirm their annual leave entitlement and accrual rate.


Employees must give advance notice for taking holidays. The notice should be at least twice as 
long as the amount of holidays they intend to take. In some circumstances, line manager can refuse 
permission for holidays by giving prior notice (which is at least as long as the holidays requested). 
However, employees must not book holidays until their request has been formally authorised in 
writing. The Institute will not accept any responsibility for monies lost as a consequence of 
employees’ failure to comply with this procedure.


The AKU-ISMC leave year runs from 1 January; and if an employee joins or leaves during the 
year, the entitlement will be pro rata.


Any leave must be agreed in advance with the line manager by email. Employees should take leave 
during the less busy times of the year or when it best meets the needs of the respective department. 
On leaving AKU-ISMC, employees may be paid in lieu of outstanding accrued leave entitlement. 
If leave has been taken in excess of annual leave entitlement the appropriate amount will be 
deducted from the final salary payment. The Institute reserves the right to require employees to 
take any unused holiday entitlement during any period of notice or garden leave, or to prevent 
them from doing so, as deemed necessary by the Institute to accommodate its needs.


The conflict of interest condition applies during the leave period wherein full-time employees of 
AKU-ISMC are not permitted to be engaged in employment, business, or service with another 
organisation whose interests may negatively impact on the effective operation of AKU-ISMC.


In cases where an employee falls sick during their annual leave entitlement, the employee will be 
able to claim sick leave (with appropriate medical certification) for the period of time they are ill
although they must first obtain advance permission from the HR Department. Upon their return 
to work the employee must fully comply with the notification requirements stipulated in the 
Sickness Notification section below. The missed annual leave may be deferred. Employees may be 
entitled to the provisions of the Institute’s Sick Pay Scheme for up to the first 15 days of certified 
sickness absence, following which any subsequent sickness absence will be subject to SSP.
Public Holidays, Institute Closure


Employees are allowed to take paid time-off on the 8 bank and public holidays (when AKU-ISMC 
will officially be closed); In addition to the usual Public Holidays, paid leave will be allowed on Eid 
days i.e. on Eid-ul-Adha and Eid-ul-Fitr (when these fall on a normal working day). Employees 
who do not wish to take time-off on Eid days or if Eid does not fall on a working day, employees 
can apply for paid discretionary leave entitlement of 2 days in lieu of Eid in order to give them the 
flexibility for religious observance in their particular faith or for taking time-off in lieu of two-days’ 
religious holidays.


Institute observes Customary Closure days between Christmas and New Year. Exact dates for 
these paid leave will be notified to the staff every year. 